docs: add Snowflake PoC (#49)
KYVENetwork/docs: docs/data_engineers/accessing_data/elt_pipeline/elt_destinations/snowflake.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Snowflake Destination

> In order to create an end to end test of the ELT pipeline apart from the Source which is the KYVE network, you should

Reviewer: I'd say a bit unclear -- perhaps can cut the whole sentence or put it after the next sentence (which introduces this page well I think)?

configure a destination where the `records` will be stored.

This page will guide you through setting up an ELT pipeline using Snowflake to fetch data from

> a [KYVE data pool](https://docs.kyve.network/basics/pools.html) and import it into a `Snowflake` database.

Reviewer: nit but I think we should refer to Snowflake as a "data warehouse" rather than database

This tutorial will guide you through setting up an ELT pipeline to fetch data from
a [KYVE data pool](https://docs.kyve.network/basics/pools.html) and import it into the Snowflake data warehouse.

A data warehouse is a centralized repository of data that is optimized for querying and analysis. It is designed for
[analytical processing (OLAP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_analytical_processing). A data warehouse can handle
large volumes of data and complex queries, while a relational database is more suitable for handling small transactions
in real-time. A data warehouse provides a way for businesses to consolidate data from various sources into a single
location, which can then be used to make better decisions.

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) is used by a wide range of businesses and industries, from startups to large
enterprises. Some main user groups that utilize Snowflake include business analysts, data scientists, data
engineers and executives.

## Snowflake Setup

### Prerequisites

These instructions assume that you already have a Snowflake account. For more information on how to get started with an
account, go [here](https://signup.snowflake.com/).

> Once the Snowflake data warehouse is set up, you can connect to it in various ways. We are going to be utilizing the UI

Reviewer: worth highlighting here that the goal is to connect to it from Airbyte? something like this:
```suggestion
Once the Snowflake data warehouse is set up, we can configure it as a destination for Airbyte. We are going to be utilizing the UI
```

via the Web browser:

1. Open a web browser and go to the [Snowflake web application](https://app.snowflake.com/).
2. Log in to your account using your Snowflake username and password.
3. Once logged in, click on the `Worksheet` option from the sidebar. Then, click on the `+ Worksheet` button on the top
   right of the page to open a new worksheet.

  <img src="/img/elt/snowflake_worksheet_1.png"/>

In order to create a connection, you will need the following:

- `Host`
- `Username`
- `Role`
- `Password`
- `Warehouse`
- `Database`
- `Default Schema`

Below are the instructions to create/get the required parameters.

> NOTE: The worksheet you just opened can act as your query editor. All the SQL queries you'll see below need to be run
> there.

> ### Getting the required parameters

Reviewer: clarify intent, e.g.
```suggestion
### Configuring Snowflake
```

  To run this command the current user must have
  a `SYSADMIN` [role](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-warehouse.html#:~:text=Objects%20%26%20Columns.-,Access%20Control%20Requirements,-A%20role%20used)
  or higher (run this command in the worksheet):

    ```sql
    CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE <warehouse_name_of_choice> WITH warehouse_size=<size_of_warehouse_as_string>;
    ```

#### Database

To create a database you can either create it on the UI or by using SQL:

- From the UI, under `Data` > `Databases` > `+ Database`
  <img src="/img/elt/snowflake_database.png"/>

    1. Input a `Name` and click on `Create` to create the database.

- Using SQL

    - To run this command the current user must have
      a `SYSADMIN` [role](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/create-warehouse.html#:~:text=Objects%20%26%20Columns.-,Access%20Control%20Requirements,-A%20role%20used)
      or higher (run this command in the worksheet):

      ```sql
      CREATE DATABASE <db_name_of_choice>;
      ```

#### Default Schema

The default schema is the schema you want to work with. Typically, it is `public`.

  <img src="/img/elt/snowflake_database_schema.png"/>

> ## Create an ELT pipeline

Reviewer: I think make more specific, e.g.
```suggestion
## Configure Airbyte
```
